{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red11\green76\blue180;\red49\green49\blue49;\red0\green0\blue233;\red56\green101\blue115;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
\cssrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;\cssrgb\c25098\c25098\c25098;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c27451\c47059\c52549;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28300\viewh17700\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README FILE\
---------------\
Title: Exposure to Macroeconomic Crises and Risk Preferences\
Authors: Bernard Sarpong and Jun Goto\
Date: November 2025\
Software: Stata 18\
\
OVERVIEW\
-----------------\
This dataset and accompanying Stata do-files support the paper \'93Exposure to Macroeconomic Crises and Risk Preferences."\
The study examines whether exposure to macroeconomic crises during early adulthood (ages 18\'9625) has long-term effects on individuals\'92\
risk preferences, and whether the policy environment at the time moderates this relationship. The analysis combines individual-level\
data from the Global Preferences Survey (Falk et al., 2018) with macroeconomic crisis episodes identified from Barro and Urs\'faa (2008)\
and the Maddison Project Database (2023). The Stata scripts perform data preparation, treatment construction, merging, estimation,\
and robustness checks, including varying thresholds of macroeconomic decline (\uc0\u8805  9% to \u8805  3%). The empirical approach employs OLS and\
high-dimensional fixed effects models with cohort-country clustered standard errors. Required packages include reghdfe, estout, coefplot, and psacalc. \
All datasets are publicly available and must be obtained from the original providers. The code ensures full replication of\
All results, tables, and figures are presented in the paper.\
\
Purpose of the Code\
-------------------\
The Stata do-files implement all empirical procedures used in the study, including data preparation, merging, treatment\
assignment, estimation, and generation of summary statistics and figures.\
\
Data Sources\
-------------\
1. Global Preferences Survey (GPS): \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Falk, A., Becker, A., Dohmen, T., Enke, B., Huffman, D., & Sunde, U. (2018). Global evidence on economic preferences.\'a0
\f1\i The quarterly journal of economics
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f1\i 133
\f0\i0 (4), 1645-1692. \cf4 Retrieved June 06, 2024, from\cf2  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjy013"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 https://doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjy013}} \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
2. Barro and Urs\'faa (2008) dataset on macroeconomic crises: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Barro, R. J., & Urs\'faa, J. F. (2008). Macroeconomic Crises since 1870.\'a0
\f1\i Brookings Papers on Economic Activity
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f1\i 2008
\f0\i0 (1), 255-350.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
3. Maddison Project Database (2023) for real GDP per capita data: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bolt, J., & Van Zanden, J. L. (2024). Maddison\uc0\u8208 style estimates of the evolution of the world economy: A new 2023 update.\'a0
\f1\i Journal of Economic Surveys
\f0\i0 ,\cf6  \cf4 1\'9641.\'a0Retrieved June 29, 2024, from \cf2 \cb1 \'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1111/joes.12618"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \cb3 \ul \ulc7 https://doi.org/10.1111/joes.12618}}
\f2\b \cf8 \cb3 \ul \ulc8  
\f0\b0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \
4. Political Regime (i.e., Democracy) drawn from standard cross-country databases: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
V-Dem (2024) \'96 processed by Our World in Data. \'93Political regime\'94 [dataset]. V-Dem, \'93V-Dem Country-Year (Full + Others) v14\'94 [original data]. Retrieved July 8, 2024, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/political-regime"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/political-regime}}\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 5. \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Equal resource distribution index\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  (i.e., Redistribution) \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
V-Dem (2024) \'96 processed by Our World in Data. \'93Equal resource distribution index \'96 (best estimate)\'94 [dataset]. V-Dem, \'93V-Dem Country-Year (Full + Others) v14\'94 [original data]. Retrieved November 4, 2024, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/equal-resource-distribution-index"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/equal-resource-distribution-index}}\cf5 \ul \ulc5  \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \
6. Cross-country labour market entry age drawn from \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
International Labour Organization. (1973). 
\f1\i Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138)
\f0\i0 . Retrieved July 31, 2025, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0::NO::P12100_INSTRUMENT_ID:312283"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 https://www.ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0::NO::P12100_INSTRUMENT_ID:312283}}\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
7. School-leaving ages collected from: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
UNESCO Institute for Statistics. (2025). 
\f1\i Duration of compulsory education
\f0\i0  [Dataset; minor processing by Our World in Data]. In UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) \'96 Education [Original data]. Our World in Data. Retrieved August 2, 2025 from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.ourworldindata.org/20250625-161807/grapher/duration-of-compulsory-education.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 https://archive.ourworldindata.org/20250625-161807/grapher/duration-of-compulsory-education.html}}\cf8 \ul \ulc8 . \cf2 \cb1 \ulnone  \cf4 \cb3 UNESCO Institute for Statistics. (2025). 
\f1\i Official entrance age to compulsory education (years) 
\f0\i0 [Dataset]. UIS Data Browser. Retrieved August 2, 2025 from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://databrowser.uis.unesco.org/view#indicatorPaths=UIS-EducationOPRI%3A0%3A401&geoMode=countries&geoUnits=&browsePath=EDUCATION%2FUIS-EducationOPRI%2Fentrance-duration&timeMode=range&view=table&chartMode=multiple&tableIndicatorId=401&chartIndicatorId=401&chartHighlightSeries=&chartHighlightEnabled=true"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul https://databrowser.uis.unesco.org/view#indicatorPaths=UIS-EducationOPRI%3A0%3A401&geoMode=countries&geoUnits=&browsePath=EDUCATION%2FUIS-EducationOPRI%2Fentrance-duration&timeMode=range&view=table&chartMode=multiple&tableIndicatorId=401&chartIndicatorId=}}\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Code Structure\
--------------\
1. **Data Preparation**\
   - Loads and cleans GPS individual-level data.\
   - Merges with country-level macroeconomic crisis data.\
   - Harmonises variable names and constructs relevant covariates.\
\
2. **Treatment Variable Construction**\
   - Identifies crisis episodes following Barro and Urs\'faa (2008): cumulative and consecutive declines of at least 10%\
     in real GDP per capita between the peak and the first year of positive growth.\
   - Assigns exposure during impressionable years (ages 18\'9625) to determine whether an individual was affected by a crisis.\
   - Constructs both binary and continuous exposure indicators.\
\
3. **Model Estimation**\
   - Runs baseline OLS and high-dimensional fixed effects models (using `reghdfe`).\
   - Controls include sex, cognitive ability, democracy, and government redistribution levels.\
   - Standard errors are clustered at the cohort-country level.\
\
4. **Robustness and Sensitivity Analyses**\
   - Tests robustness to alternative crisis-severity thresholds (\uc0\u8805 9% to \u8805 3% GDP decline).\
   - Performs sensitivity analyses.\
   - Conducts heterogeneity analysis based on redistribution environments.\
\
5. **Output Generation**\
   - Exports regression tables, descriptive summaries, and coefficient plots for publication figures.\
\
Required Stata Packages\
-----------------------\
- reghdfe (for fixed-effects estimation)\
- estout (for storing regression results)\
- coefplot (for coefficient plots)\
- outreg2 (for regression output formatting)\
-psacalc (to execute the Oster (2019) test)\
- ftools (dependency for reghdfe)\
\
Reproducibility Notes\
---------------------\
- All datasets must be stored in the same working directory before execution.\
- File paths should be updated in the \'93global directory\'94 section of the do-file.\
- Run the code sequentially to ensure full replication of results.\
\
Contact\
-------\
For replication or data access queries, please contact:\
Bernard Sarpong\
Email: bernardosarpong@gmail.com\
Institution: National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPS)}
